foreign
is an all-time low people don't trust
Sellers and marketers they trust their
friends what we try to do is match the
way we Market to the way modern humans
behave and shop and buy with inbound
marketing we've had a very strong point
of view it wasn't about the product
wasn't about the software it was about
this entire movement this is not a fact
this is the future
of sponsor product organization is on
fire these days crafting a CRM product
in-house with love from the ground up
the best time to work on culture is time
T equals zero trying to build a company
that our kids will be proud of I have a
great co-founder and a great team we
laugh a ton
so much work left to be done feels like
we're in early Innings our mission is we
want to enable millions of companies to
grow better there's so much more work to
do
[Music]
all right
how's everybody doing having fun
have we heard enough about venture
capital is it time to talk about
building a business again today
all right nice
um well thanks we have a treat
um we have
um not only two of my favorite Founders
we have them together
um and we have a product how many of you
guys use HubSpot raise show of hands
that's pretty good right thank you thank
you yeah how many of you like truly rely
on HubSpot as like the core of your
business yeah so pretty cool pretty cool
so
um a lot has changed at HubSpot over the
years I want to I want to talk about it
but I wanted it to since this is sort of
our 10th anniversary this is a little
niche but this was our very first blog
post on the left and before anyone went
public this was 2012 a long time ago
right
and Inc used to published we remember we
went public in 2012. no no this was
before you went public and everyone
would lie everyone would say you know
we're doing so great and I and I wrote
up all the all the ones that were there
and a lot of the top ones actually
declined and didn't make it and there
was HubSpot so this is probably wrong
but back then it said 20 8.5 in gap
rabbit now that might be wrong and it's
disclosed but that's 10 years ago for
saster and then fast forward today we're
at 1.7 billion dollar run rate last
quarter close enough for for Founders I
mean that's that is the power of
compounding Revenue isn't it I mean that
is that's crazy to think what 10 years
of hard work does right it's epic isn't
it and um we'll talk more about it and
actually HubSpot has accelerated after a
billion in Revenue which is pretty if
you think about where we were it's
pretty crazy so it's fun for me I
actually knew less about HubSpot than I
should have back then but I I called it
out as someone that was clearly gonna
gonna break out but I knew the website
grader all that stuff I just didn't know
how it all how it all fit together in my
head so it's it's just been fun that
HubSpot a little bit has been part of
the journey since since our first first
blog post
um so uh I think we need here I wanna I
wanna spend maybe uh 10 or 15 of our
time talking about co-founder stuff it's
pretty rare to get co-founders you're
still together you haven't gotten
divorced or broken up yet right
um and then I want to dig into some
really interesting things that have
changed the HubSpot that I think help
you and then we'll have a little bit of
time we'll at least do three or four
questions so so hold hold a few
um but on this one just this journey
accelerating after a billion but to each
of you what's one of these phase changes
that's just so visceral to you like
what's what's an interesting story or
what was the most visceral change that
we can see on this journey one is just
shifting from being a kind of marketing
apps company and going from product n
equals one to product kind of n equals
two that's a dimensional change in
complexity of the business everything
gets kind of uh not linearly harder but
exponentially harder um so that was a
big shift I would just say like our
mindset from the beginning is
well
this is this guy Peter Thiel yes yeah I
don't like I don't like his politics but
he has a really smart thing he said in
his book he says you have to be right
about something that everyone thinks
you're wrong about for a long period of
time and we kind of take that to heart
and we've always sort of if everyone's
digging
we'll Zach yeah so in the early days of
HubSpot everyone wanted to go to the
Enterprise or say no no we're going to
SMB and we have a long story about why
we did that and then six seven years
later we said we're going to want to
move from a marketing app to a CRM Suite
everyone said big Blues in the way
you're never gonna pull it off they're
unassailable we're like we can do it we
know we can do it so we sort of again
exactly never exits these days
everyone's like oh you want to build a
big CRM company the playbook's very
simple you just start acquiring
businesses and you Cobble together this
mess of the CRM Oracle Etc lots of
companies have done that we don't have
to name names and we said nope we're
going to craft together this beautiful
application in building a house kind of
like the way Apple would do it so I
think one thing that's worked for us
along the way is we've had a healthy
disrespect for conventional wisdom was
now HubSpot could mean a lot of things
actually I don't know what it means was
this always the vision to be some sort
of SMB business Suite what was this
initial Vision on I actually don't know
on day Zero yeah the only reason well I
mean the primary reason we started the
company is both of us had a a passion
for SMB this is when we were both grad
school students when we first kind of
met his classmates and partly the reason
is we had both done enterprise software
before in our prior lives as it turns
out enterprise software sucks as a life
um you've got these extended sales
Cycles it takes you so long to figure
out product Market fit because you don't
get as many data points back
um the other end of the spectrum you
could do consumer applications consumer
companies and those tend to be very kind
of bimodal outcomes either you could
come up with something great as the next
Facebook and it's billion plus dollars
and or it's nothing because you know
they're advertisement business you don't
know if you're going to break it through
the beauty of SMB is that you have
the kind of old-fashionedness of
Enterprise which is you can charge money
for software but you have the scale of
consumer where there's millions of them
out there to be served and we were just
excited about and we thought it was an
underserved Market that you know there
were everybody ends up getting pulled up
into the Enterprise
um and we felt that if we could kind of
have the courage of our conviction and
stay in SMB that that would be that
would work itself out that was one of
the founding Theses of HubSpot no we had
a slide we had a really good slide in
Our Deck this is a New Yorker cartoon
and there's a dog typing on the internet
and there's a dog looking over his
shoulder very carefully in the dog
typing in the internet says you know the
great thing about the internet is nobody
knows you're a dog and I love that slide
and it's kind of true like you can't
tell how big a company is on the
internet uh through their website and
whatnot and so we thought the internet
disproportionately benefited small
businesses startups relative to large
businesses and scale-ups and that was
our that was our thesis and everybody
thought we were wrong it was the hardest
chapters in HubSpot were raising all our
funding rounds because nobody everybody
want us to go to the Enterprise yeah and
when we were thought wrong for a very
long time every board meeting every like
it's like okay so we get it that you're
starting an SMB but surely you have a
path to the Enterprise I'm like no we
we're doing SMB year goes by five years
ago by 10 Years Ago by one of the IPO
roads but but you must have a path to
the I'm like I know but where's like no
I hate when they call you Shirley like I
know yeah do you think um nicely played
mine and I do want to talk about what
the vision was on day Zero versus today
but this the more I thought about this
SMB stuff and I had some I had I had
some of that DNA too but I changed my
mind quickly to to survive sure but do
you think it's just it really is
people's DNA
um that that it it's that passion is
that what kept kept I mean we'll talk in
a minute about as you said in a tweet as
HubSpot at a you know at a low five
figure price points really a a bigger
SMB or an M of the option really the m
and SMB but when the board was pushing
you back in the day
um was it more cultural was it more just
we don't want to do it as human beings
because we don't have passion I think
two things we did we did think that the
internet disproportionately benefited
the small relative to large particularly
on the marketing side
we also saw the business model evolving
where you can actually scale a small
business
software company you there are two
tricks to it you need to keep your tack
low which is a hard thing to do and you
can't do that with with like major
advertising budgets
um yeah you need some sort of viral
marketing premium motion product like
growth you need to really get good at
keeping cat glow and then you're going
to churn out customers so your customer
your customer dollar retention you're
going to have a divot to fill and you
need a second product or a second access
to your pricing so your best customers
can fill that divot and you grow through
it and the metrics on HubSpot like if
you look at HubSpot back
uh maybe in 2012 when you wrote that
article like our customer dollar
retention was probably 70 and our upsell
was maybe five so we were 75 percent
um uh total
and now that 70's gone to plus or minus
90 and so customers are much happier
they're sitting around longer or whatnot
and then the upsell is more like 20 in
South 110. and so over time our business
model got much stronger our and our
product got much stronger and really
helped the scale yeah I didn't I did hit
that later but I didn't it's interesting
so if when we wrote this you were in 20
30 million something Revenue you still
had crummy SMB numbers well today we
would call them shitty SMB numbers no no
VC no matter how they just just made 5
billion on figma would fund an SMB
company at 25 million AR with 75 yet we
know why it is like the smallest do
churn every month they go out of
business they change and upsell's hard
how did you what's your advice on that
because I I I'm CR I challenge folks to
at least have a path to 100 it's like a
path to profitability like you also I
think almost need a path to 100 so that
you don't plateau
the mechanics are not hard it's exactly
the component pieces you have to make
the product better right invest in
customer success the more people getting
adoption Monopoly focus on that churn
rate uh the customer dollar turn and
then you have to either have seed
expansion or more products to sell or a
tier expansion like otherwise the math
just doesn't work there's just no way to
kind of get there from here but did you
feel like you were
anything less than fully succeeding when
you had that sort of sub-optimal inner
art at night yeah the whole time where
we had high churn and you know sub 100
were like and this is we're having a you
know a pretty good run but this is not
going to be the thing what was the board
saying were they saying this is great
the 75 Revenue I'll tell you something
I'll tell you something about the early
funny days about a hotspot we had a
wonderful woman on our board named Gail
Goodman that was the CEO of a company
called Constant Contact but you don't
hear much yeah well Ben Chestnut talked
a lot about it yeah of course but back
in the day they were high in the
Salesforce ecosystem for SMB and their
Union economics where I can't remember
but you basically put a dollar in and
you get three dollars out that was the
ultimate ratio and ours were like one
and two point fives were like well they
were in spitting distance of a real
public company little did we know that
the economics of that business were
going to fall apart and we didn't find
that out actually until we did our round
with Sequoia and it was a there's a
partner there named Pat Grady and he
really dug into the way we're measuring
this and we kept talking and bragging
about Constant Contact he's like you're
measuring against the wrong company you
need to start thinking about and he
started showing us benchmarks relative
to companies like Google like LinkedIn
and it's more like five to one ten to
one you need to get there and we got
quite serious about improving those
numbers after that after after getting
beat up by pack ready pretty good yeah
we'll talk about multi-product but
that's a good that's I think that's a
fun learning for me how far you went
before you improved that kpi right
forever forever forever right like it
would be 12 years yes and it was not
from from like lack of focus it was just
so hard to move those numbers it was
yeah so hard there's one hubspots live
many lives and we've gone through many
Transformations and pivots within
HubSpot but one of them was
hubspan initially was obsessed with the
relationship between our company and a
prospect and converting that Prospect to
a customer and we got really good at it
and Captain kaklow we could really sell
Marco bears with their header sales had
him on stage many times and at some
point we just woke up and just like
started asking customers why they bought
and largely the reason they bought was
word of mouth and so we switched our
Focus to the relationship between a
HubSpot and a customer and turning that
customer into a delighted customer with
word of mouth and you can see that
change in our p l we started moving
money from sales and marketing into
product we started hiring heavily in
engineering and products and in design
and got quite quite serious about just
we're in the customer Delight business
not in the customer acquisition business
and uh that was a massive shift for us
it was sort of we flipped it overnight
on it and when was that roughly if you
had you can guess if I had to guess
it's pre-ipos but yeah now you think
that's early yeah
I don't remember about it years 40 50
million era or earlier
earlier than that because it took us a
while to get to 40 to 50. that was like
a year before the IPO I think a year and
a half is when we got to 50. um we're
not even what's interesting is you
decided Word of Mouth you want to do
incent Word of Mouth yeah and and
instead of putting that into other types
of marketing or even customer success
you intentionally put it into products
pour it into products but that's what
you have to do right so the product
spent 50 of to do double products we
went we did the exact opposite thing of
what you're supposed to do yeah and I
think companies are a reflection of
their CEOs and I'm I'm CEO and I'm a
sales guy and I'm very excited about
sales and we had a hockey stick and want
to keep that hockey stick going and so
we invested a lot early in sales and
marketing and the product just wasn't
there and until it took about 10 years
in before the product got really legit
and we were proud of it
um whereas most companies really start
they don't hire the first sales people
for a while and they invest in r d we
had our our math was backwards
um but yeah I remember the meeting we
had when we had that kind of epiphany
that we need to shift from being like a
sales marketing Focus to kind of product
and customer focused and it was at a
Founder's dinner which is usually
multi-hours involving multiple bottles
of wine and we made the decision then at
that dinner that's like oh you know we
can't just keep going down the pathway
going we're not going to achieve the
ambition we're not going to get up spot
to where we want it to be both in
agreement awesome so let's decide we're
going to be a product company awesome
we've decided we're going to be a
product company it's like the team's not
going to believe us like what like how
is that going to change behavior and uh
and so and to Brian's credit he's like
okay well the way to change behaviors
change the p l that says we're not going
to spend a dollar on sales and marketing
hires until we can get the product to a
certain level of subjective uh quality
easy subjective you didn't have a kid
was the two of us yeah it wasn't
obsessing over NPS yeah okay that was
reversing then we did an acquisition to
kind of help to get the product and the
team kind of revamped spent a bunch on
designers
um but you thought it was intense you
thought it was 10 years
we were really proud of it really proud
of it yeah yeah we also did these
another exact opposite thing I've ever
tells you focus on a little tiny thing
and get great at it and then spread we
focused on like very why it's like huge
surface area and we absolutely sucked at
all of it and then over time we just get
better and better and better bear took
about 10 years before okay but you're
what was the wedge in there besides the
other stuff what was the 10x feature
there wasn't it was the all-in-one it
was the fact that we had it it wasn't
really because that's that's rare that
at all in one really is there was no
killer app everything that we had in our
product existed there were better
products with great companies behind
them the value that we brought was the
fact that we made it simple for these
smbs to actually get into the internet
get in the game because those products
existed for a long time but then you
know 95 of smbs didn't have a website
weren't doing anything meaningful in
terms of marketing and sales um that was
the thing we were out to yeah so it
sounds like you had like you know at the
end companies are either sales LED or
sort of product LED at some level
occasionally there's quirky other ones
marketing or design like MailChimp or
figma we chat up but did you argue did
the CTO argue that there was not enough
resources in engineering were you were
you frustrated with your co-founder
well I don't call it frustration because
we both made a deliberate decision in
the early
um early years of HubSpot this is okay
we're building business software okay
we're not putting someone on Mars
inventing a new energy source so let's
stipulate that if we happen to stumble
into an actual Market that we will be
able to build a product to kind of serve
that market so the risk we were trying
to mitigate in the early years is the
only way to figure out if there's a
market or not is to try and sell into
that market and see if people will pay
you money and if they will stay right so
that's the thing the challenge was uh so
that was very deliberate intentional
decision but then you sort of get
addicted to that curve right the going
month and month in quarter it's like ah
that looks really pretty it's really fun
to show that at a board meeting
um so we didn't get frustrated with each
other but we I think we had like a
a joint Epiphany that says okay well
this can't continue like it's been a
good run but we can't do this there was
no argument it was like yeah let's do
this but the HubSpot has shifted
completely from it was a sales company
for a long time known around the Boston
area as the sales company known in San
Francisco
it's a product company now very much a
product DNA that's the center of gravity
that's the power center in the company
totally shifted over the last I think
it's a harder harder change than the
than I mean and maybe in some ways it
took 10 years right we went the opposite
way we went the opposite way you should
go you probably went the opposite way of
an SMB Focus company I think many
Enterprise folks yeah the mark benioffs
of the world literally can walk in and
sell not in the beginning because it was
SMB ironically but later Cell come in
and say for 20 million dollars I'll
solve your problem Brian yeah that's
powerful right but I don't know many
smbs that can brute force it through
sales it's a it's a tough path let me
tell you a story about Ben Chestnut okay
I'm a giant bench and Chestnut fan and I
I went to visit him down in Atlanta one
day and we had an argument and I'm not
an argumentative fellow and I said we're
in the SMB business but we're more M
than S so we sell the startups and
scale-ups he said you're full of
there's no m m is like that's the Valley
of Death there's s and there's
Enterprise
I'm not right about much but I think it
was right about this one there's an m
and a lot of you are in the software
business and thinking about your persona
and target market there's a huge huge
Market in the m and the M think of it
like 10 employees to 2 000 employees
they have money they have pain the small
business products don't solve it the
Enterprise companies don't solve as too
expensive too hard to put in and so we
want to build an anchor company in there
and there's lots of room for all of you
to come into the water in that m m is
the yeah m is m is the New Black yeah
most of you are likely M's right your
mid-sized companies you've kind of
gotten through some of those early
um early years you've got some Revenue
coming in your real businesses you're
selling real sustainable businesses um
and so there's a lot of you out there a
lot of a lot of M's I think the thing is
that there was always the vcism that M's
the death right the acv's too low the
cost of sales is too high but the truth
is most M's expand a little bit they go
a little bit into the e or a little bit
into the ass right and I don't know
where HubSpot is it seemed seems like
there's a there's not I don't know how
do I don't know if one person solo shops
that are running on MailChimp or running
I can tell you exactly what it is you
have three segments two to twenty two to
twenty and what percent's that you might
forget uh 20 to 200 yes and then 200 to
2 000. yeah and we grade ourselves you
know what's our grade in each of those
things and you know the 20 to 200 I give
us an a the 2 to 20 I give us a b the
200 to 2000 I give us a b and we talk
about internally our focus is bimodal so
we're trying to improve our motion and
our product for that 200 to 2000 and
we're trying to improve our Motion in
the ease of use on the two to twenty
yeah so we're kind of focusing on both
ends of that do you think and I get that
right but and by the way the two to
twenty is interesting because
we don't make a tremendous amount of
money on two-person companies but it's
hard to become a 20-person company
before you're a two-person company like
on your way to 20 or 200 you're too and
we won't have to rip and replace
something out we want you to start with
HubSpot and grow with HubSpot yeah let's
talk about that second do you I I do you
really think you can do both equally as
well though I mean I know you want to
because we're passionate about it but
the Motions are so different like the
just the features yeah the features from
two to two even though we love them all
our children can you really prioritize
them equally and this is a pretty
long-running uh debate up until we made
the decision
um and even now because it's another Zig
right like everyone you ever talk to
says you got to pick one you're not
gonna be able to straddle the fence and
do both you know reasonably well you're
going to compromise both um and there
are really good strong arguments in that
favor the counter argument
um for us was okay well we have a lot of
leads coming in because that's part of
it but it's like oh well the the
investment we make on our upper Market
202 000 segment we have these features
that we add that we can kind of subside
we're making money yeah then over time
our MO is we pull those down to lower
tiers all the way down to the free tier
and so it benefits the fact that we're
in the kind of upmarket Market yes
benefits our lower end customers because
they get access a set of features over
time
um that they wouldn't have gotten access
to it helps that we're in the kind of
free and starters here on the lower end
because what happens is we are forced by
constraint to make the product easy
because if it were not easy it was
purely up Market yes we wouldn't be able
to support it we wouldn't just and so
both modes kind of benefit each other it
makes us
relatively rare because very few people
try to do it that way um and yes it is
hard and we're constantly balancing when
we have what we think of as the HubSpot
spot Spotlight it's like oh yeah we're
doing both but in any given period of
time it's like okay we're really going
to focus on the velocity on this market
right now and try to fix that go to
market motion okay that's doing pretty
well let's shift it and let's now for
the next six nine 12 months kind of
focus on that upmark and make that go to
market better make sure our product
marketing is working uh it's not a
perfect science but it's worked for us
so far do enough of I should know this
but I don't do enough of the 2 to 20
graduate to make the investment worth it
on its own uh
or do they stay 2 to 20. oh there's a
lot of movement a lot I know there's a
lot of movement in the middle up but not
always from the bottom as a if it were a
standalone business it would still be a
reasonable bit so we're not just doing
it for lead gen for the upmarket it's
like oh the only reason we're doing all
this free starter stuff is because
um it feeds the upper tiers it's it's a
legitimate business on its own just a
different different set of physics um
but yeah well it's funny I was recently
I was I was sort of researching zendes
where it is today because it's such a
change right and all their emotions in
one million plus deals right that's
where all the growth is at their scale
but on our Zone just for ourselves I was
researching help desk what are they like
today and it's the only one of scale
that still has a a small version all the
other ones like and drift who came out
of here they're wonderful intercom they
don't have it they don't have that
starter Edition and zendesk kept it
which is super interested in a million
right so it must work for them but it's
not easy right it's it's not easy to
keep it I don't know if you've studied
them as a comp for going multi-stage
right but it's interesting stain
we did something interesting during Cove
Cove it was like a massive shock to all
of us the first week of covid we have we
had a starter Edition it was kind of
expensive and then we said you could now
buy maybe 250 300 bucks I can't remember
but we said we're going to lower the
price if you buy the whole Suite sales
marketing service content management
system Ops and you run your whole
company on it it's 50 bucks a month and
but the supply and demand curve behaved
in a different way than we thought like
there was a massive influx of customers
through that and that's dramatically
improved our business the upsell rate's
been really good on that uh it's pretty
low touch motion that was actually a
really oddly great thing that came out
of covet from us is that oh you ran it
ran an experiment of lowering your price
point and it works the starter bundle so
the entire so you know we're trying to
make a platform sale don't just pick you
know pieces of the HubSpot platform and
that worked he worked incredibly well
was that was that in that window where
we thought the economy would collapse
and everyone needed it whatever we
needed economic relief for about four
and a half weeks yeah exactly yeah
all right that deserves its own analysis
blog post of how that experiment we saw
the experiment worked so all right I
want to talk some more we might jump
around but I don't want it since I have
you together I want to talk a little bit
about the relationship so I don't want
to let it go
um what was like your toughest time as
co-founders
it's going to sound cliche to say we
haven't really had any like tough like
super terrible art never wanted to pull
each other's hair out or every week
rarely so rarely and I think part of it
this is what one thing I would advise
for those uh that are kind of earlier
stage one thing we did that I think
helped a lot is like the week before we
actually officially found the company we
went through this kind of series of
really hard questions that we kind of
asked each other it's like okay so what
do we want out of this what if next year
someone comes offering 50 million 100
million dollars to acquire the company
what do we do what if one of us becomes
disenchanted with the company just
doesn't really is not that excited what
if one of us was just not putting in the
hours because they've got you know they
have some excite income for whatever
reason like so all those hard questions
we kind of talk through up front right
and so one of the big decisions was
around like the reason we're starting
HubSpot is like we both had a bit of a
chip on our shoulders like we've had
singles and doubles we've done some good
things in our lives but like this is our
last and this is our last time of that
and so a bunch of things flow from that
right so a thousand arguments that could
have been had about should we raise
capital me do this they weren't even
discussions we had to have because we've
already decided that we're swinging for
the fences and anytime there's a fork in
the road we're going to go for the more
ambitious higher beta
um they don't do that enough right and
you were relying on all those points
including the 50 points we had not been
aligned on those things it's like it's
yeah life is short similar points in our
career yeah philosophically well aligned
we both like that SMB uh we were at the
time Web 2.0 was a huge thing and we
wanted to do something Web 2.0 uh we
should tell them about uh our
decision-making heuristic the okay yeah
first of all you want to know how he met
darmesh
okay
so we both went to business school
together and it was the night before
class started
and uh there's an event at the Marriott
Hotel in Kendall Square in Cambridge and
uh I was on my second Sam Adams as one
would do and a beautiful woman walked up
to me
and she starts asking me a lot of
questions like kind of like
rapid fire almost inner like not a
dialogue more q a and I thought
man these Sloan people are strange
and she very quickly abandoned me and I
came to find out later darmesh's
strategy at a cocktail party he's a
little introverted is he he goes in the
corner and he stands behind the tree
and he sends his wife out to interview
people
that's a good spouse that's a great
spouse here's this guy you want The
Scouting Report yeah
you'll never like them
oh the sales guy the sales guy over
there you won't like him you'll never
like him that guy don't even bother he
likes the Red Sox sales guy don't we
didn't meet she's like we didn't even
meet the only time in 30 years she's
been wrong in a scouting report for the
record
that's a gift our match but that's a
gift to have a scout
highly recommended by the way yeah so
that council's meeting or that doesn't
count his meeting I guess we didn't mean
so no it doesn't count yeah
I forgot what your question was
well no actually I I learned a lot from
it I like I wrote this post years ago
not not talking about me about a Founder
commitment test where I said have and I
said my forcing function for the test is
do eight year vesting yeah with no cliff
and the hard discussion has to happen if
you say I don't care if it took us two
years to get here starting today we're
gonna have a cliff in a year so if
either of us quit we leave with nothing
yep and then eight years after that and
I said if you do this it will force you
to talk about exit what if we get tired
because the one that doesn't want to go
long which is not a bad thing will not
sign up for the air that will I think
it's like yeah I thought of it back then
yeah I would have done like the eight
ten year investing yeah that's a really
good idea consideration it screams it
out and we don't do it but but it's
interesting to me that you guys got a
lot you did this test for real I never
heard of anyone that did it now one of
them and it works one of the things
together right one of the things that
really worked it was darmesh's idea
was he he said we need to figure out how
to make decisions and disagree
because you're going to disagree
and so the way it works is actually
quite simple if we both agree on a given
topic
of course we do it
if one of us feels really strongly and
is willing to lay on the tracks on a
topic and the other person's like I kind
of disagree with you but you feel
strongly we go with the lay on the track
person
if we both are strong on it and the
opposite ends of an argument and both of
us relying on the tracks we argue we
argue we argue we argue we argue but I
get to break that tie how many times do
you think I've broken that tie
okay I'm gonna bet one like one or two
like never never yeah it's so rare yeah
and the I think one of the important
points on that heuristic is that
it's not the person who's kind of area
falls under so if even if it were a
product thing or a texting or whatever
Brian feels strongly and I don't yes
um he still wins and if it's a sales
related business thing even sales comp
or whatever marketing whatever it is
even though that's not my kind of area
of expertise and I feel strongly and he
doesn't then my way goes right so it's
less about kind of jurisdiction and who
owns what and it's more about who feels
more strongly do a niche question the
first one then I want to go on to this
this idea of a front person which we
don't talk a lot about in SAS or
business software but who is the public
face of the company and it's got to be
the co at some level right but I think
one interesting about HubSpot is how
well known and beloved I'm just being
objective don't take it as a compliment
um
darmesh has become I think for a long
time right for a long time not just
Twitter followers but but putting in the
Reps and the work to to give back did
you guys think about that as an asset to
manage it did you talk about did you
talk about who would cover what surface
area like who would who would or is it
just all organic just kind of did it
organic
yeah the beauty of social media is it's
built for anti-social people like me
right a little bit yeah a little bit
right if it works it really helps right
the one thing we did early on
is we create a lot of content like you
and back then we wrote blog articles and
would each write two blog articles a
week and would try to see how many leads
we could get for blog articles so we had
this kind of friendly competition uh
where we're rooting for each other
because we want a lot of leads but we
wanted to see who could get more and
back then the way to get a lot of leads
get on the front page of dig
or
we were both pretty good I think I think
we're roughly equally messed the top 10
was probably different it's probably
different yeah but uh we didn't we've
never talked about who's the front man I
don't feel like we have one front person
yes and now we have a new CEO and so we
have a third person involved yeah so
actually it's interesting that's the in
the early days we know a bit about
HubSpot and SEO and website grading
content but blog posting to be very it
worked for you to really I mean I know
about all the stuff but the two of you
in the early days right each of you
writing blog posts yes multiple times a
week got the company off the ground yeah
how many visitors to our blog do you
think we get a month I know it's I know
it's many millions now right it's 10
million a month 10 million a month just
the blog you know 30 million across all
the web properties that we have the SEO
is like crazy isn't it I still don't
understand it this is the weird thing
the beauty of blogging and content in
general is it's kind of creative and
accumulative over time so there are
articles I have written 15 and a half
years ago back in the first year of
HubSpot it's still on the Internet it's
still still drives leads right it gets
visitors gets leads that I wrote 15
years ago right that was a one-time
investment
um yeah the new one is our podcast
that's nine million downloads a month
yeah that's worked really well that uh
it's like there's it works for for and
for for advertising or for folks that
want to get customers people listen to
this stuff yeah right I mean it's they
people don't get it because you don't
get the same analytics right no you
can't get it but my God to get nine
million even even 10 000 people in the
industry to listen to your pitch like
it's it's a people don't know it it's a
gift right yeah the other value that
outside of just kind of in terms of
content creation uh blogging as well but
um is that it forces you to think about
your business like or whatever position
or point of view you have about your
industry you have you have to write it
down twice a week and you get the
internet's really great at telling you
you're an idiot about whatever right
it's uh and so that's a great way to
kind of litmus test um or pressure test
your ideas yes as you're moving into
this when we were writing about inbound
marketing it was new and like that when
we made the thing up
um and it was nice to kind of get the
the feedback from the latest oh people
are nodding their heads they're agreeing
with this stuff as we get on stages or
um you know through online so I'll tell
you one thing about dark mesh that
people don't know okay let's be good I
didn't have like the embarrassing
question here but it would be fun to to
get that one what do we not now this
isn't America well it's not really
embarrassing
um
Esh is one of those people and I think
he's right about this that he leans into
his strengths and he completely ignores
his weaknesses and if he puts his mind
on a strength he gets really really good
at it in the early days of HubSpot he
put his mind to SEO became one of the
most foremost experts in SEO
um these days he's put his mind into
like we have this conference inbound
it's kind of like this and we just had
it last week I think he's the best
public speaker like keynote speaker in
all of Tech like he has nailed it it's
our top five all time so yeah he's
amazing
um and he's really good but if it's not
in his wheelhouse or he's not interested
in doing it you ask him to do it like
dharmesh can you pick this this chair up
or this pillage would you mind picking
this pillow up this is
too hard I can't
I damn think that I just can't I can't
do it I can't do it
he's but if he wants to do it he can
pick this whole building up over his
head
I'm a big believer in that idea by the
way is uh don't spend as many calories
mitigating your weaknesses focus on the
things you're very good at and get great
at them that's where you kind of stand
out and kind of rise above the noise
it's uh yeah it's worked really well for
you all right I want to hit this but I
know it's a bit of a non-sequitur but
you talked about inbound it was last
week yep
um it was great thank you you had you
spoke to Obama is that right I
interviewed him interview what's you
said you had a secret story to tell us
okay I need to I I want to know have you
guys heard about Barack Obama
okay we do have a pretty diver
International crowd here there's a small
chance but okay so
one of the things about it was he a
tough get or do you state how busy is he
these days before we get to it he's
hanging around Martha's Vineyard he's
got time I don't know I don't know doing
a little Angel Investing with William
and uh or whatever anyway so I got to
interview him which was it was a real
honor for me to interview him and I was
very excited about super nervous by the
way and uh he's a very thoughtful very
smart guy and that was very apparent
during his speech but
just when we were backstage here Jason
dermesh and I and there wasn't like a
lot of coordination but there's a lot of
coordination inbound and there's a stage
manager that describes where you go on
the stage and sort of organizes it and
makes sure the video goes on time you
sit in the right seat the coffee's there
and all this stuff and they're at our
conference they're OCD about so
President Obama and I are backstage and
the woman the woman's there she's very
nice so she says okay President Obama
Brian's going to go out first he's going
to sit on the seat in the right and
you're going to sit in the seat in the
left and when the the event is over
Brian's going to leave on the right and
you're just going to fall him off and
Obama's like oh wait wait a second so
do I I go no no Brian goes first he's
like do I sit in the seat on the left no
no you're in the seat in the right and
Brian's in the seat in the left so I got
it and so I'm talking to Obama about
basketball or something he's like wait
wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait
wait wait
am I on the left I'm on the seat in the
left
he's on the right she's like
no no no no you just follow Brian it's
gonna be fine he's like okay
no and then so we do the whole thing and
a very simple when it's over he gets a
giant Standing Ovation which was lovely
and it's very simple he's supposed to
follow me off to the right these and
he's like lost he's like wonderful
he's one of the smartest guys I've ever
met that he was just we have Secret
Service there right this is Barack Obama
absolutely perplexed about the seating
arrangement
Mr the former president that's why we
actually don't do that anymore we used
to do it we used to tell people and it
was too stressful darmesh you're you're
on the chair on the right right and now
we just like this guy like this is
faster okay like it's it's going to be
great we're Founders we know we can
figure out how to sit in a chair we
should have Obama next year he'll love
it yeah okay we could try
I said I get it but we've learned
um okay we're having a lot of fun so I
don't want to get too serious but crazy
stuff
changed it and and you won't remember
but you were so kind you did like during
Peak lockdown you did uh of uh our
podcast or something we did a video it
was great and we talked about the
partner Channel and this stuff and I
asked you I was going and you had like
your Lumberjack shirt on and you're like
it's great and I I'm kind of like I
don't want to do this forever but man
it's pretty good to get a break after
all these years I'm going snowmobiling
and maybe it was just maybe it was I
forgot it was a month but I felt like it
was three days later I might jump my job
my jaw drops oh I forgot my job my jaw
drops and there's like this this
accident and
um I don't know somehow I know it's not
I just knew it was rough right just
maybe it was the way the communications
was right because it was sparse you know
when you get that sparse you know it's
not good when it's sparse right it's
it's a when it's minor it's it's already
done so they give you all the details so
um how did you get over this what what
are the learnings and like and to me I
feel like a Black Swan event happens
every once in a while doesn't it and you
do this for 20 but how long how old Sub
Spot 16 16. yep there's going to be like
a couple of them aren't there
I guess this is the last one of these
for me yeah last one uh
Isaac it was crazy I remember I don't
remember talking to you from Vermont I
can just tell you the story I was
snowmobiling yeah and Miss churn and
went off
a small I would just call a small cliff
and it was going very very fast going
through the air smashed into a tree and
then smashed into the ground yeah and
I'm there on the side of a mountain it's
4 30 in the afternoon it's getting dark
it's freezing no one knew where I was
and I was pretty sure I was gonna die
that day on the side of the mountain
um you're alone for hours and hours in
the dark I was alone there for a while
and I remembered about a half hour in
that I had my iPhone and I never bring
my iPhone because in Vermont there's no
signal anywhere in Vermont yeah and so I
pulled the iPhone out I had just enough
and I called these three numbers I I
never dialed in a row 9-1-1
um that's the killer app by the way you
want to you know the killer raps 911 and
the woman's lovely and then she called
the local fire State there's two local
fire stations they're all volunteer yeah
so they're all at home and then they
call them at home and they get their
snowmobiles and they come find me and
it's dark and they like patch me up and
they drag me out and then they
helicopter meet at Dartmouth University
Hospital and save my life but it was it
was actually just sitting in the snow
bank where I was like I love my job it's
been a great 15 years but yamani who
works for me she's fantastic is probably
better suited to be CEO getting a little
tired you know when this is over she's
going to take that was in your mind in
the helicopter an evacuation it was her
time yeah it's like if I if I'm gonna
live through this yeah what do I want my
life to look like on the other side and
I want to work on things you can have as
big an impact as possible so you know
should be I'll let people know later
what I'm gonna do next but I got big
plans for my next chapter ah and where
were you at
parmesh when you heard this news is it
just crazy I was at home and it was
crazy when I heard it right on like yeah
life lesson for me is don't get on
snowmobiles um yeah that's
um but yeah pretty sure that was gonna
happen anyway
it's the whole movement thing the reason
it was sparse was I just no one knew it
was coveted so no one could like visit
me I couldn't talk no one came in the
hospital and so no one knew how bad it
was way worse than I think people
thought I knew yeah and so yeah it was
obvious I mean I forget she's been here
many times she was CCO at Dropbox before
you hired her and some were really great
before that right work there was she a
potential CEO candidate already in the
back of your mind or not uh and did she
know she was the CEO candidate she did
not know you you were you were doing
your job as Founders right a couple
weeks before the accident we had a board
meeting and we had that okay Brian gets
hit by a bus was the term who takes over
yeah you got to have that conversation
you do and we said well yeah dharmesh
and I were both like we think Germany
should take over and the board was like
yes great and then I get hit by a bus
but I can't remember hit by tree uh and
so break glass yeomani took over and
then she did a fabulous job while I was
healing and then when I was done healing
I said
you know I'm not coming back would like
you to be uh blown it I'd like you to be
a CEO so I don't want to do it
um I should say I'll be CEO or you would
do co-ceo I don't want to do it I was
like you get two choices I can go find
some schmuck from the outside or you're
doing it uh she thought about him for
watching all right I'll do it and she's
been awesome she's been on she's clearly
been awesome she's a great CEO really
those executive chair now what does that
mean for your work week like are you
still you're 100 on HubSpot but more
working on the future and vision or how
does that how does that fit today it
comes and goes like we had inbound last
week a busy uh getting confused with
Barack Obama
um and we had our board meeting this
week so we're busy where it's faster so
fired up to be here with my hero Jason
lemkin so
comes and goes busier some weeks than
others what did she um uh it it I mean
the company's clearly thrived in reality
right and we could almost do a whole set
I mean she's not here she's been here
before but it's what are a couple of
things that she did better when she took
the reins like what did she level up
with her experience because she had a
lot of experience you guys don't have
right yep it was sort of before she took
over that she did some when that when
covet hit
she she had just joined HubSpot by the
way and then bam coveted oh yeah and she
kind of took the reins and she was the
one that made the decision on that
pricing dropping that starter Suite down
that would turn out to be a brilliant
decision he had the DNA too right from
from the Dropbox a little bit man the
other thing she decided was we have we
had about half our business through
partners and she said these partners are
going to really be sucking wind they're
gonna have to lay everybody off
let's advance in their commissions for a
year and to give them some leeway which
turned out to be brilliant they didn't
play and went off we bought so much
Goodwill with our partner I love that
they love us and then after that like
the social issues sort of rocked the
country and that's and that was brought
inside the walls of every company and
she was just a great sounding board
through all that stuff the election
stuff that happened and then the
accident how well she handled that she's
very good in a crisis very calm very
professional and she's whip smart and a
really good leader
um I'm a big fan of female leaders like
half of hubspot's leadership team more
than half are female and more than half
of the board as females and she's got it
she's really really good when you think
she I mean it's a parallel universe when
do you think she would have been CEO if
it weren't for this craziness but two
more years out or something hell
probably a year traditional process yeah
yep yep yeah crazy well I'm glad you're
back me too let's just I mean I've never
never asked before but I mean when I saw
it I just oh man it's just you just hurt
right I mean uh oh goodness gracious so
I think we hit this I know we've got a
couple minutes I want to hit I want to
just maybe just hit a couple things
um maybe some tactical stuff about
HubSpot that's interesting for the
audience
um this slide so I pulled I uh last year
Aaron Levy came and I pulled some slides
from his analyst day like right after
he's like oh Jason I gotta do it again
if you really want to learn about a
great company uh not every public
company shares much but hubspot's great
and I shared some on saster you'll see
more but you can really learn about this
business the endless day was last week
right and we won't have time to go but
anyone that's even has an ACV or emotion
like them go read this because it's a
gift so I but I want to hit maybe one or
two but this one is so interesting but I
don't know what it means but it's so
interesting 11 market growth so this is
the overall surface area of your
customers 35 rep so this means you're
gaining share right and so what's what
how did you triple your share I guess
I'm not literally triple yeah but what
what do I how how at scale are you
continuing to take share what does this
mean
so part of it is focusing on
like customer account or some might say
you know the number of logos what what
does them say happening if you were
trying to write market share as a
function yes the thing that makes market
share easier to grow is your market
share so as your market share growth
more people are out there that can talk
about you and it's easier to expand
market share than you know starting from
a dead stop which is not
counterintuitive at all right that's
intuitive but
this is the other thing where you know
market share as we measure it is around
the Tam and how much we have but then
the number of customers um having that
starter tier being in that bimodal
business once again so we can add
five thousand six thousand seven
thousand customers a quarter right which
we would never be able to do if we were
purely kind of up Market
um and although we like to measure
revenue and that's how you know analysts
measure Revenue the reality is word of
mouth is not a function of how much
revenue you're making from a customer
word of mouth is based on how many
people love your product that are out
there in the world and it's much easier
to do that and get that mind share uh
versus so lots of companies focus on
like share of wallets oh this company
makes and especially an Enterprise like
oh here's their budget we want to get as
much of that budget as we possibly can
and we like to upsell and things like
that too but we are also very very
focused on just expanding that pool of
customers uh for a couple reasons one is
it's worked out for us but um every
customer you add you're and I think we
miscalculate LTV most businesses do
because complicated it is complicated
but the one thing we miss is that LTV as
it's currently measured is based on our
current churn rate and current market
dynamics here's what a customer is worth
that we sold right now
but if you've been out for a little
while and you're like oh maybe we might
add another product and here's where the
trend line is
what's the actual lifetime value right
so if it's like okay if we're trying to
project that the customer is going to be
here for Seven Ten Years well which they
will
they're not going to pay exactly the
same price they're doing right that's
not the trend we know that it's more
than that right something and anyway so
growing my share and market share counts
it helps on the word of mouth especially
in this day and age if you're trying to
rise above the noise it's a we're big
Believers of Word of Mouth market share
in mind share helps that's the gosh it's
just deliberate investment
um let me just hit one or two and then
we'll break
um I'll tell you I think the secret
sauce is yeah see what's the secret
sauce we built our last point we built
our marketing app we have let's say a
workflow engine in there we had
reporting in there and then we decided
we were going to build a CRM Suite sales
we started building the sales app we
built started building our own workflow
engine our own reporting everything and
then one day we woke up it's like why
don't we put those all down below the
stack and have a set of we call them
primary colors that we can paint from
data uh reporting workflows is a handful
of these and then each application we
take these pieces and we paint the
application because they share these
things that makes the application just
fit together so nicely so much easier to
use so much easier on wrap and it's just
unique relative to the landscape of
these cobbled together monstrosities
yeah that the competitors sell that's
the secret maybe one last question just
on this I would love to talk about more
about the suite and all the features
well maybe we'll do it out the next time
did you
I see HubSpot today as being the
dominant SMB CRM okay and but I didn't
think it would happen not because I
didn't think it could be built but it's
a different it's a slightly different
Persona it is adjacent there were good
app I mean darmesh and I actually he may
not remember we met the first time when
they were thinking CRM and I'd invested
in a company that was doing a lot of it
and it's okay that the Market's crowded
but I thought the different Persona and
would make it that it would be
successful but I didn't think it would
be dominant eight years later the way it
is right and did you know did you know
you could win in a different buyer were
you convinced you could or did it creep
up on you as the years went on
but I mean this goes to when you're
trying to decide whether you add a
second product may go from and yes one
to n equals uh two plus
um you sort of have to know why you're
doing it there's a couple reasons you do
it right one is it's a natural adjacency
it's a fit uh you know the market
expects us to do this over time uh it
could be defensive but it's like if we
don't do this we're not going to own so
that's partly ours was both offensive
and defensive like so we're in the
marketing software business if we don't
have a CRM long over the long fullness
of times
and so this is as you're experimenting
with new product ideas
one lesson we've learned is that there
are things that you do as experiments
but most experiments become
self-fulfilling prophecy you're trying
stuff out may or may not work
um but the opposite of that is if you
decide like we decided we were going to
do CRM it was not an experiment we're
like I don't care if it takes us three
years or five years or seven years or
eternity yes we're going to make this
work and so that
like then the universe kind of lines in
your interest like all this the best
people in the company want to go work on
that project because they know it's a an
important thing that we're trying to get
done
um and you kind of try to line
everything you've got behind that one
thing that you know you have to do
um and that health and of course it
might not have worked yes it was
different persona but uh but did you
know it would perform this well CRM
it worked out exactly the way we drew it
on the Whiteboard which rarely happens
it rarely happens
exactly the way we had it's a little bit
easier than marketing something we feel
like we're really early like our market
share is like four percent it's so early
yeah and the Gartner or whatever world
but I think it's pretty darn good in
your core buyer you know it's just
interesting to me because uh the last
couple years with SAS we've talked so
much about folks that they've got
multi-product right and the number one
learning from everybody is the easiest
path is when it's the same bio right the
same use case and yes and and I don't
think it's exactly it's adjacent it's
it's your buddy how but it's not and so
it's a non-intuitive I don't think it's
obvious that it would work right it's
not obvious all right let's thank let's
thank Brad and darmesh this was great
thank God very much
I'm gonna follow Brian okay
[Music]